I am a former senior partner at McKinsey, but I'm no longer associated with the firm.
And the work that I will describe briefly was not done on my watch, although I think it's great work. So the opinions are just my own,
not theirs. What I'd like to do is briefly summarize some of the research
on most recent research on artificial intelligence and it's implications for the labor force.
And then leave you with three thoughts on things that I would pay attention to. So let me start with the summary of the research.
My top line on it is stop calling this the robot apocalypse. It's not helpful,
it scares people, and it isn't a balanced view of about what's happening or about what the implications are.
We really need to step back and take a thoughtful view about what's going around on
rather than resort to Hollywood era views about the future of the world.
The technologies that Professor Groth were describing actually promise an enormous amount
of higher productivity, greater efficiency, more safety, flexibility and convenience.
They do appropriately as the research shows stroke fears about the effects on jobs,
skills, and wages. Many have looked at this and most recently good work at Oxford and
the study that I mentioned from the McKinsey Global institute find that large shares of employment in both developing and
developed world could technically be automated. However, as history has shown,
the anxieties about what John Maynard Keynes called a century ago technological unemployment,
a term that I prefer to the robot apocalypse, were actually quite overblown.
A more appropriate question has to do with re-employment. How are we going to find ways
that the jobs that are created by these new technologies,
the people that are here have the skills and opportunities to pursue those jobs.
In the future most likely as in the past the research has shown that technology is likely to fill activity gains,
income growth and boost demands for labor. Add to that lower prices and
rising quality, demands in goods for services, and services are likely to rise.
Many of jobs that will be created could not even have been imagined in the past.
A century ago, who would have thought that automobiles would lead to drive through restaurants or
roadside motels? Or more recently that information age would lead
to stadiums full of people watching video gamers compete against each other.
